---
title: "One Hot Day"
date: 2017-09-18T13:37:43-05:00
tags: ["The City"]
lastmod: 2017-09-18T13:37:43-05:00
description: "One summer day in The City"
draft: false
---
Most stories, Judas thought, began with "It was a dark and stormy
night." This thought crossed his mind as he stood in the hot sun,
feeling the sun beat down on his head.

Not only had it been a late night, but the letter from the City about
the state of the lawn, which he was already not happy with , made for
a less than pleasant day.

He hadn't even known that there was a lawn mower in the garage. He'd
never had to worry about grounds keeping before. As a personal
assistant, he'd made sure other people took care of that.

Now, it's hot, it's sunny, and the fucking mower just won't start. He
was pretty sure it had gas, he could hear it sloshing back and forth
when he rolled the mower. He found a key on a nail above the mower,
but no fucking place to put it in. He'd seen people pulling on a cord
before, he could find that. He'd pulled the fucking rope too many
fucking times it wouldn't start. The best he'd gotten was just a
coughing noise and nothing.

"Sunburn, I’m going to sunburn and still not have a mowed lawn." he
thought. He could, he knew, find a service or just pay the City's
penalty to have them come out and mow it. He was pretty sure, though,
that he would not be happy with the quality of the job the City
workers did - after all, he'd seen what some of the parks looked like.
He also knew from past experience, a good service was hard to find,
expensive, or both. Since he was just wanting to keep it nice and
neat, that seemed to be going a bit too far, especially since it would
all come out of his limited pocket. He had cats to feed.

He was on the verge of conceding defeat and he was not happy the mower
was going to win. When a dirty, green pickup truck pulling a trailer
of lawn equipment went by, then slowed down and pulled to the side of
the street. The amount of dirt on the side of the truck obscured the
name of the company and it's logo. A burly man in very dirty clothes
hopped off the back. He spoke to the driver for a moment, grabbed a
red can and a bicycle from the back of the pickup truck, and moved to
the sidewalk. The truck pulled away, trailer contents rattling loudly.

"Hey man." the figure called, "Looks like you need a hand."

It took Judas a moment, to match the voice and the face.

"Good afternoon, Cooper." he replied, "What brings you by."

"Well, hadn't seen you down to the yard since just after the big
party. We were working down the street earlier this week and today,
I'd noticed this yard looking like the City would be putting bids out
on it." came the answer, "I saw you standing out here and I know you
like things on the neat and tidy. Figured you were struggling and
thought I'd pitch in a bit. After all, the brats were damn good last
week. Bubba was off his feed and so there was enough for seconds.
Figured it would be a good thank you."

That was not the answer Judas expected. He'd run into members of the
Junkyard Caern in odd places. He knew some worked, some didn't, and
some bounced between. He also knew that Grandma, at least, tried to
make sure everybody looked out for each other. He'd just never really
expected it to apply to him.

Judas let his shoulders slump. He was not happy about having to admit
to somebody from the yard that he couldn't even figure out how to use
a lawn mower of all things.

"This," he thought, "was not going to be fun."

Forcing a smile to his face, he replied, "Thanks for stopping by. I
can't get this mower to start and machines are not one of my things, I
didn't grow up with a yard."

"No problem, man." Cooper replied, "No one's good at everything. Let
me show you a couple things, help you get going. I'll help this once
and then you can decide if you like doing it or not. If not, I'll give
you my boss's card and we'll take care of it."

Cooper looked at the mower for a moment. Then, he looked at the yard.
He shook his head.

"Let's head to the back for a few." Cooper said, starting that way.

Leaving the mower and gas can in the front, they walked around the
house. Cooper surveyed the back yard as well.

"It's been let go a while, your landlord's not keeping up. The City
will be after you for that hedge. The side ones in the front need a
better trimming. Looks like the neighbors are just trimming what hangs
over. It's nice garden, but it needs some work too." stated Cooper,
"Let's see what you have for gear."

Judas knew Gillian had spent a lot of time on the garden, but she'd
been gone for a while and it did show.

A quick go-through of the garage revealed a mostly empty gas can, a
rusty pair of shears, and a number of tools for the garden.

"Man, that back hedge is too much for the hand shears, the sides are
almost there too." opined Cooper.

"Tell you what," he continued, "I'll get you going on the mower and
help with the front a bit. You grab a couple cases of beer tonight or
tomorrow. I'll get a couple of the guys to swing by with me after
work. $40 each for them and we'll get the hedges and front beds
cleaned up and haul the crap away. Then, if you want, I'll show you
how to maintain it or you can just call my boss and get on the
schedule."

A large weight lifted from Judas's shoulders, he wasn't being made fun
of, instead he was actually being helped and taught something.

"I do," Cooper continued, "like doing this kind of work myself. The
mind can wander and think, but the body's busy. Good for a guy. Not
for everybody though."

With more patience than Judas expected and no jokes at his expense,
Cooper quickly and thoroughly showed Judas how to drain the gas tank,
get good gas into the mower, and go though what Cooper called "the
ritual of starting". He had never heard of gas going bad, but
apparently it was a thing. Cooper emptied the mowers tank into Judas'
old gas can, filled the tank from his gas can, and instructed Judas to
get a new can and fill it.

"Watch me," Cooper said once the mower was running, "I'm going to
frame the yard and mow up and down from the sidewalk. Next time, go
across. It's good to alternate."

Once the mowing was started, Cooper turned it over to Judas, then
proceeded to sweep the sidewalk of cut bits of grass. After that, he
sharpened and oiled the shears, followed by the other tools in the
small garage. When Judas was done mowing, he was hot and sweaty, but
actually felt good.

"Nice job," Cooper said, "Pretty easy to keep up with, once you know
how and if you have the time."

He handed Judas a card for "Edith's Lawns" and strapped the gas cans
to the bicycle.

"Um … I don’t keep beer in the house, but do you want some water or
something to eat?" Judas asked.

"Thanks, I'll have some water, but I'll have to get going shortly. Hot
date tonight." Cooper responded.

"Can I pay you something?" Judas asked hesitantly, not wanting to
insult, but wanting to offer.

"Nope, this is just looking out for each other." came the reply, "The
work in a couple days, you can take care of, that'll be a bit more
work. It'll get you off the City's list though. Make sure to keep it
up or have it kept up, though. Once you're on the list they'll check
regularly for a couple years, they make a fair bit off of people that
don’t keep their yards up."

After the water was gone and Cooper had ridden off, Judas sat on the
front steps. A feeling of accomplishment settled in and the thought
that maybe, just maybe, he was really accepted wandered through his
head.
