---
title: "Story Teller Part 1"
date: 2017-09-18T13:35:54-05:00
tags: ["The City"]
lastmod: 2017-09-18T13:35:54-05:00
description: "A traveling storyteller visits the Sept of the Blue Box."
draft: false
---
Like many things in his life, it started with a phone call. Like many
things in his life, it ended in chaos and commotion. That the path
in-between did not involve pain was a pleasant change.

Late on a Thursday afternoon, the quiet of his painting room was
broken by the ringing of his telephone. After setting down the brush
he was using, the handset was picked up.

"Judas? That you?" came across the ear piece, nearly drowned out by
noise in the background.

"This is Judas." he replied.

"Man, it's me. Shiny Bits. You home?" Shiny Bits asked.

"Where are you?" he asked, feeling like he should be yelling to be
heard over the screaming of metal in the background.

"I'm down by the metal shredder, it's car eating day. It was the only
working pay phone I could find today." came the reply, "What are you
doing tonight? I've got a treat for you, if you can make it down to
the yard."

"I don't know, I need to get a lot of this project done. They changed
what they wanted, but not when they wanted it." Judas said, raising
his voice.

"C'mon man, it's cool treat and Grandma says we don't see enough of
you these days." Shiny Bits whined, "It'll be fun and I think she's
baking today!"

"OK, fine. I'll be there." Judas replied, reluctantly.

"Sweet! It's BYOB, but we'll share too, if you want. We're lighting up
a bonfire."

Judas felt a shiver of trepidation run down his spine.

"You're not going to drag me out chasing after something that will
hurt me and send me back to the hospital, are you?" he cautiously
asked, flinching as the noise got louder in the background.

"Nah, we might go out later, but you can split before that." was the
reply, "I'll catch you later, my quarter is just about up."

The phone went dead.

"Well," Judas thought to himself, "this may be ominous."

Looked at the time, beginning to clean the brush as he thought about
what he needed to prepare for the evening.

Later that evening, after cleaning up, having a good meal, and
changing into his street clothes, Judas arrived at the junk yard.
Passing through the hidden side gate, he nodded to Knee-Stomper the
guard on duty. The burly Bone Gnawer nodded politely and called a
quiet greeting.

"Hey, man. Here for the show?" he called.

"The show? Shiny Bits told me he had a treat for me, but not what it
was." Judas replied, "What's going on tonight?"

'Had a 'tena tale spinner show up, he's a friend of Grandpa's from
back a long way." Knee-Stomper told him, "He gets out this way once or
twice a year, usually over a moon bridge when he's passing through to
or from some where. Shiny makes blades for him and he brings Gaia
knows what for Shiny."

Shiny Bit's totem should have been the pack rat, Judas thought to himself.

"Get on in, grab a good seat. Runs-Then-Looks always has some good
stories." he continued on, "They're just gathering the wood to build
the bonfire, should be a big one."

"Thanks for the tip." Judas replied as he moved further back into the yard.

The yard was a frenzy of motion. Most of the younger garou were
gathering pallet wood and somebody had scored a City Works truck
filled with tree branches and trunk sections that were spared the
chipper. He could see food and drink being pulled and laid out under
Grandma's direction. One of her hands was motioning in clear direction
to the younger garou and the other had a large bag with a big bow on
it.

As he passed Shiny Bit's squat, he was surprised to see it's owner
sitting on a small tarp in front of it. He had several sections of
plate glass around him, a cloth of some sort on his lap, and a variety
of rocks and a couple pieces of what looked like deer antler around
him.

Judas called out a quiet greeting, wanting to avoid for the moment
being noticed and given a chore. After a moment Shiny Bits looked up
and waved him over.

"It's safe here, everybody knows I'm busy at the moment. Look like
you're asking a question or learning something and you can dodge
chores for a while." he told Judas.

"It's good to see you, it's been a couple weeks and I thought you
didn't love us any more." he continued.

"Good evening to you. No, it's not that," Judas replied, "I've had a
couple of big commissions and they've a lot of kids down at the
Helping Hand, that always keeps me moving. The art classes are doing
well. What are you doing?"

"Well, I scored some big pieces of plate glass a few days ago. I
learned a long time back how to knap it like you would flint or
obsidian. It makes really sharp edges." said Shiny Bits, "I generally
do blades, usually small ones, and arrow heads. I sell some of the
blades to surgeons here in town. Some I used for different things.
Runs-then-looks always wants some too. He's got a knack for binding
glass spirits to them."

"Glass spirits? No, wait, I don't think I want to know right now."
Judas shook his head, "Who's Runs-then-looks"

"He's the big guest tonight. He's an Uktena storyteller. He and
Grandpa go back years and year, I think all the way back to the 'nam
days." came the answer, "He wasn't young then, claims to remember
meeting Pancho Villa when he was young, although I'm not sure I buy
that, he's in awful good shape for somebody that old. Then again, he
spends a lot of time wandering the Umbra."

"Who are the Uktena? I haven't heard that name." asked Judas.

"They're one of the tribes, I'd have thought you'd have heard about
most of them, but maybe not." Shiny Bits answered, "Do  you know how
many tribes there are?"

"Well, you don't publish a pamphlet with that kind of information, but
I'd guess there's 4, maybe 5." Judas answered.

"Aww, man. Not at all." Shiny Bits groaned, "Tell me what you know and
we'll fix that while I finish this up. Guess you won't have to just
look like you're learning something."

Judas thought for a moment, "Well, I know you and most folks here are
Bone Gnawers, Morgan is a Fianna, Ramsey calls himself a Silent
Strider, there's the Mafia boys like that bastard Vincent, and the
Tree Farmers that we're trying to buy that bit of land with. Oh, and
Passing Through is a fang or claw?"

Shiny Bits shook his head, "I see you enough that I forget you're not
a long term part of us, not really a cub to be taught everything,
closer than the other mages, but not one of the tribe either. Some
things are secret, dangerous to let out. A strange seat you sit in.
I'll talk to Grandma, find out what I can teach, what I should teach,
and what I'm not permitted to teach - at least of the stuff I know.
You're becoming adopted kin and should get education that's right for
what you are."

"Basics though, that should be no problem." he continued, "You've
really met 5 of Thirteen tribes, your Mafia boys and the Tree Farmers
are really different parts of one tribe, the Glass Walkers. We're one,
Fianna are one, and Passing Through is a Red Talon, try to get the
name right, a lot of the talons are more apt to rip you to shreds even
without screwing up the name. You'll probably meet a Shadow Lord at
some point in time, they're in the land consortium too. You'll at
least hear, maybe meet an Uktena tonight. I'll fill you on the other
tribes another time.  When I'm done, you'll know more than most that
aren't one of us about the tribes."

"For now though," he carried on, "I'll tell you a bit about the
Uktena. They're one of the three tribes here when our fathers crossed
the Atlantic. Red Talons have been wherever there was wilderness, on
either side of the water. The Uktena lived mostly in the south and the
west, unlike most, they went for assimilation. They took in many
outcasts and downtrodden. Their real interest - in general, at least -
are secrets and mysteries. They spend a lot of time delving into
forgotten, lost or unknown things. A lot of folks don't trust them
thinking that chasing after those things make them more open to
corruption. Also, most folks, they don't trust people with secrets and
the Uktena have their secrets. Pretty two-faced, considering most
folks insist they be allowed to have their own."

Judas listened quietly, he rarely got direct instruction or things
explained to him.

"I've worked with them now and again, they're a mixed bag like any
group. Some good folks, some assholes, and all the normal mix. Ones we
know, have ties to, or are vouched for, are always welcome. Everybody
else is on a case by case." Shiny Bits wrapped up.

"So, what about the guy tonight, Runs-then-looks?" Judas asked.

"Yup, you got the name right, sounds like a name with a story, doesn't
it." chuckled Shiny Bits, "I don't know the full story behind the
name, but we've a fair number of newer faces tonight, so he'll say
something about it and probably throw in a story pointing out why
running into something without looking where you're running is a bad
idea. He usually claims he's still around to provide a lesson to folks
and since most garou have trouble with looking before they leap,
that's a common theme for him."

Shiny Bits wrapped several large chipped blades in some bright foil
wrapping paper, wrapped even more smaller ones into a folded paper
bundle. The rest of the plate was wrapped in the cloth that had been
in his lap and put, with the tools, into a small bag that looked like
it had been swiped from a grade school girl. The Hello Kitty image had
been decorated with a number of tattoos and a large beard.

"Follow me, I'll drop this off, we'll grab some grub, and find a
seat." Shiny Bits said as he headed over to the big grill.

After Shiny Bits grabbed some food, handed a plate piled high with
more food that Judas would eat at one sitting to the mage, then then
proceeded to glare at two junior garou until they gave up their seats.

"Drop your plate and your cup here, nobody will bother it." He
directed, "Follow me."

The pair headed around the fire pit to the back of an old Chevy Van
that had had the side door removed years before. Sitting inside was
Grandpa and the oldest garou Judas had ever seen. A small figure, he
had the facial structures and coloring of a Native American, but his
hair was dark and curly, twisted into long dreadlocks. Battered dusty
clothes covered his frame and dark feathers decorated the flat-brimmed
hat he work. Bright, curious eyes peered out from underneath it.

"Shiny Bits, I recognize you." came an odd, but clearly formal,
greeting. It was delivered in a gravelly voice, that sounded like it
was from deep in the south, colored by Spanish accent.

"I greet you, Runs-Then-Looks, my ears eager for your wisdom, my soul
for your stories." was the reply, "I bring gifts for you and a
companion to introduce to you."

It was strange, to Judas, to see Shiny Bits acting formal. Judas had
always supposed Shiny Bits could do it, he just had never seen it. He
was far more familiar with the comedian and street operator, than this
aspect.

"This gift for your work." Shiny Bits said, passing over the recently
wrapped package.

"This gift for you." came next, followed by another package.

The old garou unwrapped the first package, making appreciative noises
at the sharp bits of glass, carefully shaped.

"These will be fine gifts to the spirits of glass, they will cut our
foes deeply." he said.

The second package, proved to contain a small variety of snack foods
and what appeared to be a long knife, fashioned from a large tooth.
Judas couldn't figure out what would have such a large tooth, then he
remembered the saber-tooth tiger that he'd seen in one of the realms
he'd traveled through his first trip through the Curtain place. He
shuddered, remember the smell and the fear the first time he saw the
big cat.

"This, is my companion and ally, Judas Maldito." Shiny Bits stated
formally, "He is new to us, but has traveled with me and stood by our
side and is learning of us. While a mage, he sits with us here,
welcome."

Again, the formal tone threw Judas, for a moment this sounded very
familiar, but he couldn't place where he'd seen something similar.

Old eyes looked at him, measuring him, weighing him.

"Judas Maldito, I greet you. I look forward to hearing your stories."
was the reply.

"Um, hello, rather, I greet  you Runs-Then-Looks. I’m sorry I didn't
know to bring a gift." Judas said quietly.

The old garou smiled, "You didn't need to know, you're learning. In
time, like myself you'll learn to keep a thing or two on hand for this
type of situation. Enjoy this small gift from me."

A small pouch of hide was passed to Judas after being pulled from a
coat pocket. Judas wasn't sure if he should open it or not, so he
smiled, said thank you, and held onto the package.

"For you, Shiny Bits, I stumbled across something and thought of you."
Runs-Then-Looks said, passing a small wooden box to Shiny Bits.

The box, carved with images of flowers and snakes, opened to reveal a
small, black sphere that looked to be made of plastic. A white circle
with the number 8 on it gleamed in the harsh junkyard lights.

"No way! Where did you find it? I've been hunting for one of these!"
exclaimed Shiny Bits.

Judas didn't understand at first, he'd seem a dozen of the 8-balls at
the local Toys-R-Us a couple weeks ago, then he remembered what Shiny
Bits had said as they were first going to the Curtain Place to look
for one. That some were special and actually gave real answers or
advice.

As Shiny Bits expressed his thanks, Grandma hurried up, presenting
both sitting garou with a heaping plate of food and passing the bag in
her hand to Runs-Then-Walks. The partially opened bag let the scent of
fresh cookies out, telling Judas what it's contents were.

"Eat up," she commanded, "They'll be lighting the fire soon and we'll
all want to have eaten by then."

Judas and Shiny Bits made their way back to their seats. The food,
while of dubious origin, was good as it always was for an event like
this. As they ate, the usual sounds of laughter, insults, arguments,
and general carrying-on surrounded them. It felt like the usual almost
frat party atmosphere, but there was a current of anticipation flowing
through the crowd as well. Judas noticed several of the people he knew
from the mage side were there, as well as a few people he didn't know
belonged there, and a few complete strangers.  As the sun finished
setting, most people finished eating and  the bonfire was started.

"Hey! Listen up!" echoed through the yard.

"It's time for the telling of tales, for hearing the stories." the
loud voice of Bubba came through the quieting noise.

"Tonight, it's not me leading off, it's our guest. Runs-Then-Walks is
back, bringing three tales, one from the past, one from the now, and
one to teach." he said loudly, "Listen well, attend, learn, and
remember. One day, you may be telling these tales. Listen or be taught
to listen."

Nobody wanting Bubba teaching hard lessons. Hard lessons were for
chrinos form, where injuries healed and things grew back. Judas had
watched an uppity teenager be taken to school once, he didn't want to
see that again. Especially not the lecture from Grandma that followed
the lesson.

Runs-Then-Walks moved to the front of the assembly, where all could
see him. He brought a three legged stool in one hand and a large glass
in the other. He seated himself, took a look around, and began
speaking in a voice that carried through the crowd.

"Welcome all, welcome. Thanks for turning out to hear the words of an
old man. It's been a while since I've been here and it may be a while
before I'm back. I've come to have a little food, tell some stories,
hopefully teach a lesson, and then enjoy the party."

As he spoke, the crowd quickly quieted down, making themselves
comfortable. Fog started to roll in and the heat from the fire began
reaching out to the crowd.

"I've traveled far and I've traveled long, but I've still a ways to
go. I’m going to start off with the lesson tonight and it's the lesson
of my name. It's not the name I was born with, but it's the first name
I earned. Other names have cropped up, but this, this is the one that
stuck. My name is Runs-Then-Looks, it's from the first hard lesson I
learned and it's the one I work the hardest to teach. It could also be
Leaps-Then-Looks, but I didn't jump much then, but I ran a lot. Often
into trouble."

"We're garou, all here knows what that means. We serve the great
mother, Gaia, that birthed us all, fighting those that would destroy
her. We follow Luna in all her phases while taking care to know when
to be bold and when to be cautious. Like any people, we're governed by
our passions, but our real passion is our rage. Rage against those
that would destroy us, rage against those that would defile or destroy
our mother. Rage gives us our shapes and our ability to defend out
mother by destroying those that come against her. It powers us, it
fuels us, and it drives us. It can also trap and destroy us. It almost
did me, crushing my first pack, costing me 5 siblings and leaving two
of us damaged. "

The speaker stood and turned, while removing his jacket to show his
bare back. While there were signs of many scars, one scar dominated
his back, running almost half a foot wide from the right shoulder to
the left hip, below the top of the jeans.

That, Judas knew, from hard experience, was an injury only a garou
would have survived.

"We were young, none of us had been garou for long, all having changed
for the first time mere moons before. We didn't listen well to the
lessons we were taught and reveled in our strength, knowing it would
carry us. We were wrong, very wrong."

"We had gotten word, that men had come, riding the rails that had
spread across the land. A kin had noticed a new spur of rail run out
into sacred lands and told our sept of it. The rails themselves were
bad, but we had many other things to face and do, so they sat. After
time, it was noticed that spirits from the desert were no longer
right. They were shaped oddly and acted strangely. The umbra was
darkening and the veil, always thin in the remote places was
thickening. Packs came and went around the area, but we didn't notice
until the third pack hadn't come back, that one area was much worse."

"There was no reason that we could see for this, but then our kin
started dying. First the very young and the old, then even the strong
began to weaken. Something had to be done and we didn't think the
elders were moving quickly. So we ran, ran into action, ran to destroy
the problem. We didn't think of what it might be, all our victories
had been easy, why wouldn't this one be easy as well."

"What we didn't know, was that after we left, a scout returned,
warning of a trap on the path. A subtle trap that had taken the
missing packs. We rushed forward, as those behind us tried to catch us
to warn us. On our path we found polluted, ruined water hole after
water hole. Our thirst driving us as much as our rage. Then we found
the oases. Not the oases you are thinking of, but a creature of the
wyrm."

"In the heat of the day, with our thirst at its worst, we saw water,
cool clear water before us. The pack rushed forward, two of us to
watch, while the rest drank. Before we knew it, the drinkers were
poisoned beyond the ability to stand and we were attacked. Banes in
numbers we had never seen before, banes of toxic spirits first, then
blight children. Two of us cut down quickly as the poison filled their
system, the rest by the banes and wyrm spawn. All because we looked a
gift horse in the mouth. To make it worse, the two of us on watch
leapt in to try and avenge our fallen pack mates.  While there's great
glory, at times in a final stand, there is none in being stupid. We
later learned of the great damage being done at the end of the spur
rail, the things being dumped and poisoning Gaia with their toxins.
The attack postponed to rescue foolish cubs from themselves."

"I survived, three packs that had followed after us, racing, rushed,
fearful for us arrived. In time to save the last two foolish ones. The
strongest of the pack leaders looked at us after the banes were driven
off and the blight children destroyed. He counted the high cost of our
lesson, asking if now, finally, we understood why you looked before
you ran. If we had learned the lesson of what happens when you
Run-Then-Look, the name I was given for blindly leaping when I should
have looked. There is a time to leap, but a time to look and I had yet
to learn the difference between the two. There are other tribes that
will speak of the glory that comes from rushing in against horrible
odds and emerging victorious. We all know those stories and honor
those heroes, the ones that step up. I have told and will tell again
tales of the heroes. But, learn, think, look before you leap, know
that the sacrifice is necessary."

"The creature we met, the Oases, is one of the wyrm's potent tools,
but thankfully rare. I have twice run into them in remote places and I
have twice heard of them in the cities, where they lay in wait for the
unwary. Themselves, they have no power to hurt or kill. Instead they
have the power to hide. The power to make toxic sludge look like the
cleanest of water. To mask other banes or spirits of harm from the
senses of even the most alert. So, when you find something that is too
good to be true, or out of place, don't be fooled, check it out from a
point of safety. The umbra will show it's true nature, learn to look
behind the veil."

Runs-Then-Looks paused for a moment. He drank deeply from his cup. He
paused after thinking a moment.

"Three stories you were promised, one from the past, one from the now,
and one lesson. What I just told, I think is the lesson. Learn well
when to be brave, when to stand, when to look first for danger, and,
most important, when to call for a helping hand. Remember, the packs
are the fingers of the septs and the septs the fists of the garou.
What will break a finger may be smashed by the fist."

"Next, I think will be a story from the past. I've wandered far and
near, I've seen much. This is a story from my youth. The first time I
saw a mystery."

"A decade or more back, when the Love Canal had been found and
exposed, I was living with my mother's tribe in the deserts of the
west. We had heard of the great desecration at the canal and stories
of the garou that fought the banes and toxic spirits by it. We were
greatly heartened by man's response to it, but we knew those that fed
the wyrm at the canal would try to move on as they could to keep
dumping the wastes that fed their masters' pets and servants."

"Word came to us, from kin, that a rail spur had been run in the dark
of night from a small town near them. That during the day, it carried
no traffic, but at night it was busy. Where it stopped, near some
caves, the umbra was darkening, the land around it was dying. Could we
come and destroy it before the wyrm was strong."

"Our sept responded to the call, for it fell well within the range of
sacred lands we protected. The sept mustered it's strongest packs and
we left in the night to unleash our fury on it."

"We arrived, with the rising of the full moon, ready to smash and
destroy. The rail terminal fell quickly, the station and tracks torn.
However, as we fought to where the contents of the train had been
taken, our foes grew mightier. Formori appeared, engines of
destruction, armed with large guns and poisonous gifts. Yet we
persevered. Banes that had not been seen on this side of the veil
began to appear and a pack of the fallen ones, the dancers, arrived.
The tide turned, but more garou appeared as well, directed via a
friendly spirit that witness our struggle."

"Even with more garou, the flow of banes was overwhelming. We fought
valiantly, but the tide had turned, we were to be crushed."

"Remember, the veil, the shroud of the weaver is ever with us.
However, it is strong where the weaver is strong and weak where the
wyld holds sway and the weaver is weak. I saw, for the first time, the
veil ripple in clear sight, then tear. The black cloud that had been
forming turned darker that the blackest pit, descending down to the
hills above us. A great noise swelled behind the crest of the hills
and then they came, smashing over all in their path."

"A great herd of the biggest cattle I'd ever seen. All of them, black
as coal with long horns that swept all before them, tearing, ripping
before the steely hooves smashed and trampled things in their way.
Brands could be seen, burning with the bright red fires of flame
spirits, their eyes were red and evil. They came, smashing friend and
foe alike. The locomotive, destroyed by us was smashed to pieces.
Nothing was free from harm, even banes and spirits. All crushed and
smashed."

"Around them rode men on horses that were breathing fire, horses that
looked like nightmares made flesh. While they were never able to cut
off or direct the herd, they followed it trying. I saw formori and the
Spiral Dancers cut down by their guns and trampled by the herd."

"Then, as abruptly as they came, they were gone. Into another gully,
to the clouds and gone. Our enemies crushed and ourselves wounded. I
had been thrown aside by the shoulder of one of the horses, out of the
path of the herd. Others were not so lucky. Friend and foe were
smashed together into the dirt."

"Those of us that could, destroyed the walls of the pit being formed,
smashing and destroying what we could. Our kin watch the sit to this
day, sharpshooters deterring any that would venture to it or rebuild
the path it."

"Years later, I heard Johnny Cash singing of ghost riders in the sky
and I wonder, what he'd seen and where he'd seen what I've seen, to be
able to write that song."

"Now, my voice is tired, let's all grab something to drink, listen to
other tales from other tellers. Before the night is one, I will tell
you of my last trip to the untouched place where the earth is still
young and why I chose to leave it, not through the normal paths, but
by rafting out to the edge and riding the waterfall into the deep
umbra."
