---
title: "BadMoonRising"
date: 2017-09-18T13:41:14-05:00
tags: ["The City"]
lastmod: 2017-09-18T13:41:14-05:00
description: ""
weight: 5
draft: true
---
"I, have clearly been spending too much time with the Gnawers." John
thought to himself, "I really need to think about that."

It had been, a good party. He hadn't been away from The City in too
long, especially for a tribe of wanderers. He'd known about the tribal
moot for a while and made the effort to get to it. He'd spent most of
the trip to it wondering about two things. First, what would Ernest
and the Shadow Lords get up to without him around to keep an eye on
things. Second, why there were no moon bridges in and out of The City?
He'd thought he'd be able to make a quick hop or four by moon bridge
to get close to the site of the Silent Striders' moot. Instead, he'd
spent too many hours on a Greyhound bus to get to a caern that owed
him a favor or two and that would be willing to let him use a moon
bridge from there.

The moot had gone well, he'd gotten lines on a few things, swapped a
bunch of stories, and learned some things. He'd also gotten to catch
up with some of his kin folk, both close and distant. The after party
had been really good, but he'd not paid attention to the time very
well and more than two weeks had slipped by. He was pretty sure he
remembered most of it, but there were a few gaps and a new tattoo.

The fact that, at the end of it, he had his shirt and twenty dollars
in his jeans pocket resulted in him trying to take a moon pathback to
The City under the crescent moon. He'd known it would be tough and had
counted on speed to take him through, especially since the last half
of his trip would be solo. He'd lost his owl spirit guide to an ambush
by banes that he'd nearly not made it through. It had cost him the
mirror he normally used to slip back from the Umbra as well as quite a
bit of blood.

His current spot was not a much better position, he was hiding from a
group of banes, hoping that they would pass without detecting him. The
bit of warning had been enough to get just off the edge of
the path and into a hiding place. He was fairly sure he'd made it back
into the City, although he wasn't completely sure of where he was in
it. The mass of webbing from the Weaver's constructs wasn't that
unusual and suggested that he might be near the downtown area.

The smell, though, was what convinced him that he was in the City. The
City had a very distinct smell, compared to many of the other umbral
locations he'd been in. It had the smell of rot and the weaver that was the
normal smell of an urban umbra. In the City though, its smell was just off.
There was the smell of an old place that he associated with Cairo and it's
environs, but also a subtle smell of wrongness that he'd not run into
before. He'd never seen weaver web actually rotting before coming to
the City and the smell of that was stomach twisting. He'd gotten used
to it before, but being away had brought it back to his attention.

Even his hiding place, was not something that seemed natural, although
unnatural in his favor this time. He'd been a bit distracted by the
sweet smell of roses for a moment, then he'd heard the sound of the
group of banes approaching. The thorns on the rose bushes
that he'd found were abnormally long and, he was pretty sure,
glistening with a venom of some sort. On the up side, he'd completely
missed touching any of them when he slid behind them. He'd thought
for a moment that the branches had moved to let him through and closed
behind him to better hid him. He didn't sense a spirit helping him,
but that didn't mean there wasn't one there. It also didn't mean that
something wasn't digging into his hip, but that could wait for a bit.

The umbra seemed to still for a moment, all the banes stopped moving.
He was able to count thirteen of them, immobile as if frozen. At that
moment his bones shook. A bell rang, a deep resounding sound that
caused his bones and the ground to vibrate in resonance with it. As
the air stilled after the sound, a weaver spirit came crashing down
from above. The strand spider was still for a moment, as if stunned.
The banes, now moving, promptly pounced on it.

In short order, three of the banes were destroyed. The spider was
aggressively attacking the rest. John could see some guardian spiders
coming. That did not bode well for the banes, given they were small
ones. He huddled even closer to the ground, hiding further behind the
roses and moving under a pile of bricks.

In the umbral space, they appeared to be old, old bricks that were
vine covered and worn. He wondered what building had the presence to
generate a physical presence in the umbra. That was another thing he
knew he'd think about later. The City had an umbral presence much
stronger than most, even the oldest of he'd seen in the states. Idly,
he wondered what he'd see if he visited some of the sites of the old
Aztec, Mayan, or Inca sites and how they would compare to Giza and
Cairo.

Refocusing, because lack of focus equals death, John saw a small flash
on the ground in front of him. The limited moonlight was flashing off
a small piece of metal. He picked it up, sliding it into a shirt
pocket. He slid further back, planning on quietly moving away from the
combat going on. Not something he wanted anything to do with while
alone.

He'd moved well out of sight, although the presence of web covered
buildings had grown, the spiritual presence of the buildings around him forming a
canyon, the sides covered in webbing. Quiet sounds of movement above
made him cautious, the webbing around him seemed old, but clearly not
abandoned. Balefire could be seen down some of the smaller canyons
that fed into the one he was in. Not for the first time, he wondered
where the bawn that the Bone Gnawers kept around the junkyard was.
Squatting down for a moment, he had to think about where he was.

The umbra wasn't new to him, he'd been in it much of his life. He'd
been taught in it, he'd travelled it, and lived in it. The City's
umbral landscape was different in odd ways. It always disoriented him. It was stronger, more
confusing, and much more than most urban umbrascapes. The wyld was
much stronger, more fierce, and the gauntlet thinner than most cities.
The wyrm was aggressive, even by its standards, and the weaver almost
hyperactive. Spirits were active and the presence of Unicorn just
threw him for a loop. He wished he'd thought to tell some of the
other striders about this, that it slipped his mind wasn't normal, but
he was busy catching up and then the party spun up.

As the cigarette burned down, a small motion caught his eye. A
cockroach gaffling was moving through the webbing at the base of one
of the buildings. It paused and looked at him.

"Well, well, little friend." John murmured, "Might we make a deal?"

It slowly moved on, as John thought about what he had on hand to
offer. The small gaffling paused.

"A favor for a favor?" came the whisper.

John was a bit surprised, usually a gaffling was about as smart as a
dog or a cat, speech indicated a strong master for this one.

"That could work," he replied, "What favor would you need?"

"Something done," it replied, "a delivery, perhaps. What do you seek
in exchange?"

"A path," John answered, "A path to my friends."

"Your friends? Who?"

"Do you know Vincent DiAmico? Or perhaps the grandfather of my kin?" John asked.

"Both, both of them my master knows." it replied, "The path to the
grandfather's home is known, as is a path back across the gauntlet."

The web above them moved, as if swaying in the wind, a faint clicking
noise heard as well.

"I would take the bargain, the path across the gauntlet." John said
quietly, "What to be delivered and to who?"

"A key, delivered to a martyr." the gaffling stated, "Delivered by the
full moon, a reward will be provided, words of advice and knowledge."

Not the best bargain, John thought to himself, but the clicking noises
were now coming from a couple directions and getting louder.

"How, will I know who the martyr is?" he asked, "How will I know when
I've found the right one to deliver it to?"

"Dressed in scarlet, he lives under the sign of cockroach. He has the
mark of fire on him and is here in the City." the gaffling informed
him, "Now, take the key below me and follow."

When the gaffling moved, John spotted a shield-shaped piece of metal
with a dagger emblazoned on it. He scooped it up and followed the
spirit. It lead him back the way he came, then up a small opening he'd
not paid attention to when he'd passed it. Through it, he found
himself in what appeared to an empty space, roughly the size of a
room. A room with  a mirror, he realized.

Quickly, he thanked the spirit and passed through the mirror. As he
regained his bearings, he realized a couple things. It was a bathroom,
which explained the bigger mirror, a women's bathroom. Secondly, it
was occupied. He quickly ducked out the door as the sound of screams
followed him. Looking around, he realized where he was. He was well
into the uptown, several blocks from where he'd followed Earnest once
and a block off a main street that, if followed led to the area that
the junkyard was in.

"Hey, that's him, the pervert in the bathroom!"

"Oh, shit." John said, ducking into a nearby alley and sliding into a
dumpster. He heard a lot of movement and resigned himself to a long
wait in a less than pleasant smelling place. As he made himself
comfortable, the clicking of metal in his shirt pocket attracted his
attention.

Emptying it, he found an assortment of change and a small metal disk.
Remembering the object he'd picked up, he looked closely at the disk.
It was a small pendant, meant for a necklace or such. It had the image
of a man on it, in the style of the old Catholic Saints. The words
bordering it read "Sancti Stephani".

It was disturbing, he almost felt like he was home. Definitely too
much time with the Gnawers.
