---
title: "The First Signs"
date: 2017-09-18T13:34:30-05:00
tags: ["The City"]
lastmod: 2017-09-18T13:34:30-05:00
description: ""
weight: 3
draft: false
---
It took some time for the words to sink in. Something about those words resonated in his mind.
While he focused on the children and the art they were making, part of
his mind gnawed at the last words. He knew he'd heard them recently
and twice in a short period of time resonated oddly in his thoughts. The memory sat,
taunting him, just outside of his reach.

He'd told the kids that they would wrap up after lunch, then clean up.
He had an appointment that afternoon for a commission and he would
need to clean up and change. That accomplished and on his way, he
continued to think about the words. He knew he should know it, but his
mind was still fuzzy from the recent injuries. He was healing, but it
was slower than he would like.

Given the difficulties with parking, he'd taken the bus and the subway
to the business district. The afternoon rush hadn't really started and
he made good time. As the subway moved from underground to overhead
lines, he caught a glimpse of the park where the creature had come
through the veil. In the time that had passed, the clean up had moved
on. The new pavilion looked nicer than he'd expected, in the brief
look.

Leaving the subway stop, he passed through several of the small open
spaces that filled some of the corners left by odd-shaped building.
Always a magnet for the strange and the poor, they were littered with
people holding signs. Some signs warned of the impending end of the
world, others told of dire circumstances that encouraged the reader to
drop money in a hat or can.

Nodding to familiar faces, he moved quickly through to his destination.

"Hey, man!" a familiar voice called.

Looking down, he saw Dr. Crispy, a face from the Helping Hand Mission.
Crispy  claimed he made the best fried chicken when he was still
cooking in New Orleans. Most folks that knew him, knew he had been
covered in lighter fluid and lit on fire years back. While they had saved
his life and kept his head from scarring, burn scars covered the rest
of his body. No one knew why the doctor title had been added.

"Have you heard the new guy?" Dr. Crispy asked, "He's got a spot about
halfway up the courthouse steps. He's crazier than most and has the
stamina."

"No, I haven't been downtown in a couple of months," replied Judas.

" You've got to catch him, he starts just after light and keeps going
until almost dark. He's a big guy, I don't know what scares him, but
he high-tails it away just before dark."

Sliding a couple dollars into the hat in front of Dr. Crispy, Judas
made his excuses and headed to his meeting.

After the meeting, Judas remembered the words of his contact and
routed his steps past the courthouse. Standing about half-way up the
step, the new guy was unmistakable. A tall, solid man with pitch-black
skin and dreadlocks down past his knees. Even his beard was tied into
dreadlocks that reach his waist. He had no sign and was dressed in
worn clothes. He didn't have the starved look of a long term street
resident, but the signs of the street were all over him. The pinched
face, clothes that had not been washed in recent memory, the way his
back was to the solid wall that served as a base to one of the entry
monoliths.

He wasn't yelling or screaming like many street preachers. He carried
no sign, but there was an almost feral look to his eyes that caught
Judas' attention. Judas wondered, for a brief moment, what he would
like like if he shifted, like the werewolves did. There was none of
the otherworldly vibe that he picked up from many of the werewolves in
their human form.

As he approached the words became clearer.

"Alas, alas for Babylon! The days are near, the times are ending!"
came the message, delivered in an urgent, earnest tone, "The mob
bringing the silence will return as the wheel turns, the high shall be
low and the low raised high."

"I am not the prophet, but I have seen his words, heard the whispers
disturbing the sound of eternal silence. The herald comes to foretell
and oppose them. Alas poor Babylon, sleeping in ignorance, the prophet
ignored. Your days are numbered."

A hard tingle ran up Judas' back as the muscles sharply contracted. He
realized that he should not be hearing a voice that quiet across such
a noisy space. Others clearly could, but the plaza was too loud for
that tone to be heard so clearly.

The hard tingle caused him to reflexively redirect his movement,
moving to a corner of the plaza. He looked around, realizing something
else was out of place. After a moment, he noticed odd eddies in the
traffic pattern of the pedestrians. Two, no three spots had odd gaps.
Looking closely, he could see in each gap, three pale men, each in a
dark suit. Their routes were clearly designed to hem in the street
preacher. A look back at the street opposite the steps showed three
black sedans and a dark panel van idling at the curb.

The crowd between the newcomers and the preacher had thinned, almost
as if even the sleepers could sense the impending meeting. Judas been
preparing himself to not be there.

"Let all the righteous seek the words of the prophet." came, louder than before.

The street preacher stepped back, into the corner of the base, and vanished.
