---
title: "The Heralding"
date: 2017-09-18T13:42:32-05:00
tags: ["The City"]
lastmod: 2017-09-18T13:42:32-05:00
description: ""
weight: 4
draft: false
---
"Bah," he thought to himself, "warm wine and an uncomfortable bench."

He was sitting in one of the "new" parks, it had been redone a few
months back. The new sculpture by that fancy-pants guy had not
improved it one bit, to his mind. He'd have rather they spent money
on more comfortable benches.

The sun was setting between the towers, between sips of wine he
admired the flashing of the light off the gleaming glass. Long ago,
when he'd first come to the City, he'd worked cleaning them. Like most
things, that job hadn't lasted. Another in a long string of failures.

A patrol car drove lazily by, making a last round. He knew they
wouldn't be back until morning to clean up whatever mess had been left
by the gangs. He could see the news reports now, "No suspects, police
asking for information." His drifted, there was a time his suit alone
marked him, no gang member would have bothered him. Those days were
even longer gone. He raised a silent toast to his lost brothers.

The sun, he noticed, was starting to touch the horizon. He had to make
up his mind as to try to ride the night out, hopefully unnoticed by
the human wolves or try to slid off to somewhere safer. No place was
really safe, just degrees of safety.

His mind moved slowly, alcohol may be a cheap drug, but it worked, to
a point. Even if it worked slowly. His gait was unsteady as he rose,
starting his slow walk to elsewhere. The Helping Hand had had room
lately. There were more families there now, though. He'd rather a kid
have a bed, he was used to the street.

There was almost no noise, and a seconds warning before the impact. He
was clipped and sent flying.

"Watch out, loser!" was tossed over the bicyclists shoulder. The bike
didn't stop speeding away as he spun, falling and rolling. The impact,
with the wine, sent him spinning down into darkness.

"I'm not in a bed." crept through a fuzzy mind.

"I fucking hurt." followed.

"What the hell is digging into my skin?" came next.

Awareness slowly and reluctantly slid into his mind. He knew better to
make noise. After all, noise attracted attention and attention
attracted predators. He could smell the cheap wine that he'd been
drinking. As his eyes opened, he silently groaned. He was still in the
park. He could hear others. Through blurry eyes he could see a single
figure approaching through one of the park lights.

"Hey, hey, what have we got here?" a voice came from almost behind
him, gently mocking, full of malice, "Don't you know the public park
closes at dark? It's a private park now and we're here to collect
admissions."

His clearing vision showed a young lady pausing in the lamplight. Tall
and slender, with an almost stately bearing.

"Oh fuck," he thought, "I've got to get gone, nothing I can do here
but die." He huddled into a tight ball, trying to hide further in the
thorny bush that had wrapped around him. He could remember, barely,
the sergeant saying that any cover was better than no cover.

"Begone." she said in a quiet, carrying voice, "I come not seeking the
jackals of the streets, instead, I quest for the legions of the brave
and the Captains."

"Ooo... fancy, fancy." came the reply, "Fancy talk and fancy dress
don't mean a thing here, this is Hi-Hats' turf here. We collect the
tolls, cash or trade. You look worth more in trade than in cash."

He closed his eyes, wishing he could close his ears too. Money, looks,
those would only get somebody hurt tonight. The Hi-Hats did not have a
good reputation, even for a street gang. He could clearly see the top
hats and painted faces affected by the gang members in the light of
other lights around the young lady.

The gang members began closing in, circling like the predators they were.

The lady in the center showed no fear or worry. Rather she stood as if
she was on a corner waiting for the light to change.

From the shadows on the courthouse side of the park four large figures emerged.

"Desist and depart." declared one of the figures, "You are
apprehended, Ceres Victorias, the others may leave."

The gang members turned on the new comers, the ones behind Ceres
pausing, blocking her flight.

"Man, you don't come on our turf, giving us orders." the gang speaker
spoke, "She's our meat, when we're done, you can have what we don't
want."

The four figures did not pause or slow their movement.

"You boys are going to get hurt bad, if you don't turn and run." came
the warning. Bats, chains, knives and guns all were coming out.

"Resistance is futile." was the coldly stated reply.

Violence was coming, he could hear it, smell it, even taste it on the
breeze. Softly, gently in the distance he began hearing a bell. It
tolled, as if warning.

"Spatial anomaly detected." declared one of the four large figures.

In the background, toward the center of the park, a will-o-the-wisp of
movement, a faint trace of phosphorescence glimmered, slowly forming a
circle in the air.

In the center of the circle, a large, bulky form began to appear. It
was hard to make out, in the dim light of the circle, the park lights
did not provide much illumination either. It was clearly four legged
and large. A loud, insane, and evil laugh came from it as it's head
scanned the area.

The motion of the head against the distant light showed odd shapes on
the back and the head. What looked like a large horn emerged from the
front of it's muzzle.

"Aberration detected, anomaly no longer detected." the cold voice
stated, "Report made, new priority termination. Apprehension of
reality deviant reduced in priority."

Shapes began to move under the overcoats of the large figures. The
gang members hesitated, not sure whether or not to flee.

Repeating the laugh, the dangerous looking figure leapt in the air,
landing next to a small cluster of the gang members. It's tail
flashed, taking the group off their feet. From the sounds of breaking
bones and the screams of pain, none would be getting up quickly.

"That's it, fucker!" screamed the gang leader, "Nothing does that to
the Hi-Hats! Get it."

Weapons that had appeared sprung into motion. The beast itself wasn't
still, it moved quickly, attacking. Hard swung bats bounced off it's
hide, knife-wielders didn't even get within reach before claws or the
tail struck them down. Almost all those down were moaning in pain and
not able to fight. Clearly it was striking to wound or cripple. The
usual silence of the Hi-Hats was broken by cries of pain.

After seconds and the loss of half their number, the Hi-Hats pulled
back. As they regrouped, the beast moved over to some of the wounded.
It's claws and teeth began to tear at the wounded, causing more pain.
The cries of the wounded further enraged the standing gang members.

Guns that had been in pockets came out and the sound of gun fire
echoed through the park. The beast just shrugged the fire off. Pistols
were quickly shown to be worse than useless, as the beast tore through
the remaining Hi-Hats.

After demolishing the gang, the beast slowed for a moment, thrashing
it's tail across those laying behind it. A series of low growls came
out and it eyed the four standing men, that hadn't moved.

"Analysis complete. Data collection analyzed." one stated.

"Plan formed, actions to be initiated. Large caliber only." another one said.

"Engineer resources requested. Current priority containment until
support arrives." a third spoke.

"Fresh meat, fresh meat, fresh meat." the beast chittered in a low and
gravelly voice, "new toys to pain."

In unison, the four spread out, large barrels emerging from under
identical jackets. The beast eyed them and leapt, as fire began. The
gun barrels tracked the beast, flame emerging from one, what sounded
like large caliber bullets from two more, and strange pulses of light
from the fourth.

With it's hideous laugh, the beast landed in front of one, reaching
out with an arm to claw. Unlike the gang members, the man was quick to
move back as the claws passed, only his jacket torn. The fire and
pulses of light impacted the beast, causing it to scream in an oddly
human way. Whipping around, it smashed the one it tried to claw with
it's tail while charging the one that was firing flame.

The impact of the tail sent the burly man flying, but not nearly as
far as the gang members had. On skidding to a stop, he continued to
pour rounds into the side and back of the beast. His partner, did not
let up either, bullets forming a deadly web that barely slowed the
beast down.

The beast caught it's target with the flame gun, smashing down on him,
driving him to his knees. The sound of metal scraping tore through,
jarring ears that were ringing from the weapons fire. Fuel from the
flame gun spilled out from under the jacket, igniting the coat and the
man. The beast spun, leaping through the hail of bullets to pounce on
the target that was firing pulses of light.

A larger sound echoed through the park, a huge projectile hit the
beast in the side, knocking it off it's path. It screamed again as a
metal skeleton, wrapped in flame grabbed it's tail, pining it down.

Quickly lashing out, it smashed the skeleton, taking in turn
additional pulses of light to it's head and face. The skeleton,
smashed into immobility sparked and burned. A second loud boom knocked
the beast off it's feet, sending it's tail lashing around to smash the
man wielding the light gun. The guns clicked dry of ammunition.

"Hold!" cried a woman's voice. Ceres stepped back into the light. The
beast laughed it's terrible laugh, looking at her.

"Your valor shines," she called loudly, "I call you to stand and
serve. Come forth, Captains, lead the legions, the legions of the
brave."

Bright neon colored light began to swirl around the men in the
clearing. The flames on the burning skeleton died out and the fallen
man stood. The beast moved it's head back and forth, warily.

The lights twisted and writhed across the bodies, clothes morphed into
armor, gun barrels into more medieval weapons. Metal flowed from the
skin of men to build the armor, their heads thrown back in a mix of
human screams and the sound of metal being torn and reformed. The man
in the bushes did not see symbols forming on the breast plates of the
armor as he struggled to move even further into the thorny bushes.

As the lights began to fade, the beast again let it's hideous laugh
out, snatched up two of the fallen gang members and made to flee.
Power in shades of neon colors of the transformation flowed from the
hands of the lady, smashing the beast to the ground. It rolled,
turned, dropped its human cargo and changed the newly garbed knights.

Quickly pole arms flew out to smash the beast, but it adeptly dodged
them to leap over their heads in a large bound. It quickly vanished
into alleyways.

"Come, we must slay the beast ere it takes more victims." commanded
the lady, "To me, Captains! Once defeated, we will seek our Lord."

The four figures rushed into the alley after the beast, leaving the
scattered bodies behind them. In the quickly falling quiet, the sounds
of silence began again to stir, with the distant sound of sirens.

Quietly, like he'd been taught lifetimes ago, he slid deeper into the
dark. In moments, all signs that he'd been there, wrapped in the
thorny crown of the rose bush, gone. Save for a few strands of dirty
red fabric hanging from the sharp thorns.
