---
title: "Strange Things"
date: 2017-09-18T13:46:59-05:00
tags: ["The City"]
lastmod: 2017-09-18T13:46:59-05:00
weight: 2
description: ""
draft: false
---
"It was a dark and foggy night ...." though Judas, "Not how I like my
evenings to go."

Judas should have been home hours ago. A meeting on a new commission
had run long and a mass of confusing messages first from pigeons, then
from cats had caused him to spend more time out. By the time he gave
up trying to sort that out, it was well after dark and he was in a
strange part of the City. More time spent wandering and avoiding
alleyways as the fog rolled in. Finally, as the fog dimmed the street
lights into faint glows, he found the diner.

He'd then gotten caught up with the various girls that work the area
and some of the better off indigents that could afford a hot meal or
at least the cost of a cup of coffee to get out of the damp, suffocating
fog.

"Nights like this, never end well."

Wishing his caddy was running, so he could have driven down, Judas
walked quickly down the sidewalk toward the nearest bus stop. Only a
few lines ran this late, but the one arriving in a few minutes would
drop him off near to his home.

"Psst." came to his ears, quietly, almost too quietly.

Judas froze, locking in position and reaching for a flashlight that
wasn't there. He could hear a quiet scuttling noise. Then silence.

Without warning, a weight suddenly dropped on his shoulders, pushing
him forward into the streets. He could feel legs and small claws
scrabbling on his jacket. Immediately he began to flail around.

"Hold still!! I can't keep my grip if you don't hold still."

"Off! Off! Off!" Judas shrieked.

The weight vanished, followed by a quiet thump.

Judas recovered himself, quickly checking for oncoming traffic.
Nothing around now, but fog. He scanned the area looking for what had
assaulted him.

"Psst, over here, toward the street light."

Judas briefly saw a small shape on the ground. It rushed toward him,
dodging through his feet. He dodged, but moving made it worse, causing
his feet to get first hit then knocked from under him. As he painfully
sprawled in the middle of the empty road, a weight settled on his
chest.

"Strange things are afoot at the Circle K." the quiet voice said, "I
was sent to tell you."

"Who?" Judas gasped, trying to regain his breath.

"Rat, rat sends me with the message." he heard, "The message is for
you. Strange things are afoot at the Circle K."

Judas' mind quietly boggled, "Is this John fucking with me again? The
rat-in-pants shtick getting old?"

"No, not John, Rat. Rat sends me. Says to tell you, bad things on the
wind, bad things from far away."

Judas' vision had cleared some, the fog had lightened a bit, allowing
him to see a large, slightly glowing dock rat sat on his chest.

"Rat has smelled a prophet, somebody who has seen. Find him or find
his message. Prepare, prepare so all is not lost." the rat said. "Else
it's alas, alas for Babylon, the end of days."
